Add Tests and Demos about "Sensitive Data Stored Unencrypted via Room" (#3541)
OWASP/mastg: tests-beta/android/MASVS-STORAGE/MASTG-TEST-0309.md

---
platform: android
title: Runtime Verification of Sensitive Data Stored Unencrypted in Android Room DB
id: MASTG-TEST-0309
type: [dynamic, filesystem]
weakness: MASWE-0006

> best-practices: [MASTG-BEST-0025]

Reviewer: This BEST is about using PRNGs. How is this related to this test?

profiles: [L2]
status: new
---

## Overview

This test checks at runtime whether sensitive data — tokens, secrets, or PII — is stored in Room databases without encryption. The goal is to ensure that sensitive information is not persisted in plaintext within the app's private storage.

## Steps

> 1. Install and run the app on a rooted or emulated device (@MASTG-TECH-0005).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Starting a device is not anymore needed for the tests.

> 2. Trigger app functionality that processes or stores sensitive data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Exercise all the functionalities of the app that process or store sensitive data.
```

> 3. Access the app's private storage and locate Room database files:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Access the app's private storage (@MASTG-TECH-0008) and locate Room database files:
```

Reviewer: Placing the TECH next to its human description fits better than after the list of Room files

   - `/data/data/<package_name>/databases/<database_name>`
   - `/data/data/<package_name>/databases/<database_name>-wal`
   - `/data/data/<package_name>/databases/<database_name>-shm`

>    (@MASTG-TECH-0008)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 4. Extract the database files to the host machine using @MASTG-TECH-0003.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Extract the database files of the app to the host machine (@MASTG-TECH-0002).
```

Reviewer: MASTG-TECH-0003 is about dumping the APK, but not their associated storage files.

> 5. Inspect database contents using a SQLite client or dynamic analysis tool (@MASTG-TECH-0015) to confirm whether sensitive data is stored in plaintext.

Reviewer: Such TECH is in TBD, try to use another TECH that is already done and fits better; otherwise, the TECH must be properly documented before relasing this TEST.

> 5. Inspect database contents using a SQLite client or dynamic analysis tool (@MASTG-TECH-0015) to confirm whether sensitive data is stored in plaintext.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Inspect database contents using a SQLite client or dynamic analysis tool (@MASTG-TECH-0015) to confirm whether sensitive data is stored in plaintext.
```

## Observation

> - Which Room database files exist on the device

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The location of the Room database files inside the application's private storage.
```

> - Whether sensitive data (tokens, secrets, PII) is stored in plaintext

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Occurrences inside the Room database file where the sensitive data (tokens, secrets, PII) is stored in plaintext.
```
